[Kurata] I want everyone
to listen to me well, guys.
Today, we have our biggest
match of the tournament.
Today is the day
we get to shine
and show Japan
who we truly are.
-Yeah!
-Mhm.
-Excuse me, Coach.
Huh? Is something wrong,
Machiko?
Sorry to interrupt, Coach.
It's just Yoshiko made
something special
for everyone.
Huh?
Although,
you don't have to use it
if you guys
don't want to, Coach.
Yoshiko, can I see
what it is?
Uh, yeah.
[Hikaru]
Wow...
It must've taken you
a long time to make them.
[chuckle]
Thank you so much
for the present.
We're really going to
miss you when you leave.
It's true.
It's your last tournament
with Furano.
And we won't get to see
each other in high school.
[chuckle]
Everyone, I want you to wear
these headbands
proudly on your heads.
-Yeah, it'd be our honor.
-Sure thing, Captain.
We'll finally look handsome.
[Shuichi]
Like videogame characters!
[Machiko]
Oda, this headband is yours.
Thank you.
Every headband is
custom made.
-Huh?
-It has your number
-sewed onto it.
-Huh?
Oh, wow, it does.
Here, Captain,
this one is yours.
Yeah, thank you.
[giggle]
[chuckle]
Okay then...
Prepare yourselves,
Nankatsu.
Because today,
we'll be the winners.
[narrarator] Nankatsu's
locker room...
[Ryo] Are you sure
you're okay, Tsubasa?
Yeah, my shoulder
and my leg
are almost
completely healed.
No need to worry.
Nothing will stop me
from playing by your side.
Don't worry about
my injuries.
You guys just focus on
playing at 100%.
You can rest easy.
We'll have your back
no matter what.
-Isn't that right guys?
-Yeah!
I'm ready to face off
against you Matsuyama.
[narrarator] Episode 44:
Number 10 versus Number 10.
[announcer] We're now in
the second match of
the semifinals of
the national tournament.
- the national tournament.
-Furano!
- Representing the Shizuoka
- prefecture,
-Let's go!
- we have Team Nankatsu.
We will win!
[announcer] And representing
Hokkaido,
we have Team Furano.
It's the first time
these teams meet
on the field.
Both teams' players
are now exiting
the locker rooms.
[cheering]
[announcer] Woah,
all of Team Furano
is wearing headbands
across their foreheads.
We don't know
what they mean,
but we're guessing
it's for good luck.
Here's Furano's captain,
Matsuyama
wearing
the number 10 jersey.
And from Nankatsu,
we have Captain Tsubasa,
also with
the number 10 jersey.
Both number 10s
will face off today
and the referee
tosses the coin.
[Hikaru]
Even if you're injured,
I won't take it easy on you,
Tsubasa.
[Tsubasa] Two more games
and we will win
the tri-championship.
I have to win
the tournament
to go to Brazil.
[announcer] It's Nankatsu's
kick-off.
Furano chooses what side
they'll start off in.
Tsubasa, you have no idea
how long I've waited
for this.
I want you to give it
your all today, Captain.
I want the same.
Let the best team win.
You have to win, Captain.
[Sanae] Tsubasa, please
take care of your injuries.
-Furano! Furano!
-Let's go! Let's go!
-We will win!
[whistle]
[announcer]
And the player's hearts
are lit on
the playing field.
Here!
[announcer] Kisugi passes
the ball to his captain.
-Here I come.
-[gasp]
Tsubasa, you aren't
the only one
with a well-rounded team.
Today, you'll see
our style of play.
We won't go easy on you.
You better be ready.
-Here I come, Tsubasa.
-[gasp]
[announcer] Matsuyama
dives Tsubasa
with a powerful
slide tackle.
[grunt]
He was able to dodge me.
He really is that fast.
But not fast enough
to fool me that easily.
Don't get too cocky,
Tsubasa!
[scream]
[announcer] Matsuyama
spins around
and takes the ball
from Tsubasa.
That was awesome, Captain.
Incredible Feinting Tackle!
Great thinking, Captain.
[grunt]
Run up the field, guys.
Yes, Captain!
Okay, you did surprise me,
but you still haven't
beat me.
[announcer] Tsubasa
trails behind furiously
to catch Matsuyama.
-Be careful, Captain.
-What's that?
[grunt]
[grunts]
[announcer] Matsuyama's
able to pass the ball
just before Tsubasa
could take it away.
No.
Tsubasa...
[grunt]
-It's mine!
-No, how did he--?
-Great!
-Go ahead, Ryo!
Now's your turn, Tsubasa.
[grunt]
Tsubasa, this truly is
an honor for me.
I get to face you head on.
Please take care of
your injuries.
I don't want to have
an advantage over you,
but I don't plan
to be gentle
out on the field either.
Kisugi!
That was a great pass,
Tsubasa.
-Go on offense, Kisugi!
-[growl]
-[yell]
-[grunt]
-[gasp]
[announcer]
Furano's defense blocks
Kisugi's scoring attempt
and the ball goes
straight towards Tsubasa.
Got it.
-[yell]
-[announcer]
Tsubasa winds up
to shoot his notorious
Drive Shot.
Not if I can help it.
[grunts]
[announcer] But the ball's
swept from his feet.
Matsuyama!
You won't get to shoot
your Drive Shot
while I'm man marking you.
[announcer] Matsuyama
runs towards the goal,
followed closely
by Tsubasa.
[growling]
[announcer]
This is incredible.
The two midfielders
are facing off
in a duel of the titans.
[Sanae]
Tsubasa...
[Yoshiko]
Matsuyama...
[pants]
[yell]
[growl]
[grunts]
[Yasushi]
Stay focused, Matsuyama!
[Ryo]
You can do it, Tsubasa!
[grunt]
[growls]
[yells]
[announcer] Both captains kick
the ball simultaneously.
And the impact sends it
flying sky high.
[Tsubasa]
Matsuyama...
[Hikaru]
Tsubasa...
- It won't be easy. You won't
-
It won't be easy. You won't
- be able to beat me.
-
be able to beat me.
-Get the ball!
-We'll get it!
[yells]
[announcer] It's a duel
in midair.
[yells]
[announcer] No one's willing
to give up the ball.
[grunts]
[Mamoru]
I got it.
[Shingo]
You can do it, Izawa.
Soccer's a sport that's
practiced with teamwork.
If the captains
are dead even...
Izawa's the variable
that tips the scale.
Nankatsu has the upper hand.
Everyone go back to defend,
quickly.
It's yours, Kisugi.
Yeah!
[announcer] Kisugi kicks a volle
with a slide tackle.
Never.
-[announcer] But the ball's
-[gasp]
deflected by the powerful
defense from Furano.
Clear the ball!
[grunts]
[announcer] Furano clears
the ball.
[grunts]
-No! [grunt]
-[grunts]
Go!
[announcer] Tsubasa evades
Matsuyama's slide tackle
and cross passes
to the danger zone.
Don't get distracted.
Take the ball from them now.
[yell]
[announcer] Izawa jumps
to get the pass.
-[yell]
-[announcer]
And hits the ball
with a header.
- But the goalie from Furano
-[yell]
blocks his shot
with his fist.
What an excellent save
from goalkeeper Kato.
-Great save, Kato!
Captain!
Job well done, guys!
Now run up the field.
It's time for
the Avalanche Attack.
-Yes, Captain!
-What'd he say?
-[gasp]
What does Avalanche Attack
mean?
-[yelling]
-[announcer]
Incredible.
All of Furano's
switching to offense
and runs rapidly towards
the goal of their opponent.
[Hikaru]
No need to worry, guys.
I will pass you the ball.
[Tsubasa]
It's a risky strategy,
but they all trust that
their captain
will be able to
keep the ball.
It's incredible.
[grunt]
[announcer] Matsuyama passes
Taki and Kisugi with ease.
Furano's captain
demonstrates his prowess
- on the field.
-[growl]
But Tsubasa
runs to catch up to him.
It's useless.
[grunt]
[announcer] Matsuyama makes
a long pass.
It's time, Furano!
-It's time!
I don't care how many
of you there are.
There's only one ball.
[grunts]
Don't get too cocky,
Nankatsu.
We have to clear the ball.
It's ours!
-[gasp]
-[gasp] This can't be.
-It's incredible.
-[gasps]
It doesn't matter
what we try and do.
They always recover
the ball.
If a player from Furano
loses the ball...
Another one will come
to his aid.
Furano, get ready.
It's time.
This is it.
Our famous...
-Avalanche Attack!
[announcer] Will Nankatsu
be able to defend
the powerful
Avalanche Attack
- from Furano?
-Here!
Oda shoots
the ball to the goal.
[grunts]
[announcer]
But the goalie Morisaki
- defends by deflecting
-[grunt]
the ball with his fists.
[announcer] Tsubasa
and Matsuyama
are running to recover
the ball.
Just who will get it?
I'll take care of it,
Captain.
[grunt]
Thank you!
[announcer] Matsuyama
turns towards the goal.
No!
[yell]
Damn it all!
It's my opportunity.
[Hikaru]
Nankatsu and Toho Academy...
are very strong rivals.
We don't have the means
or skill to beat them.
If we want to win,
I can't change my position.
I have to score goals
from a distance.
I have to make a long shot.
I am not a prodigy
like Tsubasa or Hyuga...
I have to train more.
Discipline...
can defeat raw talent.
[yell]
[announcer] Matsuyama
shots a shot
from outside
the goalie's box.
-[gasp]
-Please score!
[announcer]
Impressive!
The chilly gust
from the shot
cuts through the grass,
leaving behind a trail
of snow like diamond dust.
-[gasps]
-[announcer]
The ball
hits the net.
Morisaki
couldn't stop it.
Furano - 1,
Nankatsu - nothing.
There it is.
Let's go for
the second goal.
[narrarator]
And we're back!
[Hisashi]
That was amazing, Captain.
[announcer] And Furano
scores the first goal.
The snowy terrain
he's trained in
has hardened Matsuyama's
legs like ice itself.
Thanks to Furano's
Avalanche Attack,
Captain Matsuyama
was able to shoot
- shoot that magnificent
-Amazing job, Furano!
Hokkaido Shot.
[laugh] They were
able to score, Yoshiko.
Yeah!
-[grunt] Matsuyama...
-Yeah! A goal!
- That was incredible.
-Come on, come on!
You must've have trained
really hard
to master that shot.
-[growls]
-Aww...
And here I thought
we had them figured out.
Damn, they tricked us.
-[Tsubasa] Hey, guys.
-Huh?
It's time for
the counterattack.
Don't get discouraged
over a goal.
This is not over
until it's over, you got it?
And remember our goal
this year.
We're aiming to claim
the tri championship.
-Yeah!
[whistle]
[announcer] And now,
it's the red team's turn
to start the match.
[Hikaru] Their morale's
as strong as ever.
[narrarator] We'll be right back
with Captain Tsubasa.
Nankatsu is really
impressive.
Everyone,
be ready to defend.
Yeah!
[announcer] Nankatsu's captain
spearheads the offense.
Don't worry.
I'll take care of him
personally.
Matsuyama...
[Hikaru]
Tsubasa...
Here!
[grunt]
[announcer]
Tsubasa passes the ball
- to avoid Matsuyama.
-[grunt]
- Taki receives it.
-I'll show them!
Come on, guys,
you can do this!
Fool their defense,
so Tsubasa can score!
We need two goals
to win, Taki.
[panting]
Huh?
[announcer] Furano's
patiently waiting
for Taki's arrival.
I can take care of
one defender.
-[grunt]
-[scream]
[announcer]
Taki loses the ball!
Good job, Kondo!
[gasp]
[panting]
[announcer] But Ishizaki
recovers the ball,
and runs on the wing
- at great speed.
-Now I'll really get
to show off.
You'll see how skilled I am.
I swear it on
my grandma's cooking!
You can do it, Ishizaki.
-Crosspass the ball now!
-[grunt]
It's yours, Izawa.
[announcer] Ishizaki shoots
a cross pass
to Izawa,
who's waiting for the ball,
as well as Tsubasa.
-Captain!
-[grunt]
[yell]
[announcer] Tsubasa hits
- a beautiful header.
-[grunt]
But the ball's blocked
by Furano's captain!
Oh yeah?
If it won't go in
the easy way,
then maybe this time,
I'll do it myself!
[announcer] Ishizaki shoots
from a difficult angle.
This can't happen!
[announcer]
Goalpost!
Nankatsu was
unable to score.
Damn it all.
I thought that shot
was going in.
[announcer] This grants
a goal kick for Furano.
[grunt]
[announcer] Matsuyama
receives the ball
- clear with his chest.
-Got it!
[Hikaru]
Tsubasa, I won't allow you
to steal the ball again.
I'm going to go through you.
[announcer]
Nankatsu's captain
runs towards Matsuyama
to face him.
[Tsubasa] It was my fault
we lost the ball.
This time,
I will get it back
and I'll score a goal.
[cheering]
[grunts]
[announcer] Tsubasa follows
Matsuyama
like he's his own shadow.
But Matsuyama
isn't losing possession
of the ball this time.
[grunts]
-Captain, pass the ball!
-[gasp]
Don't you worry.
You guys run to their goal.
If I pass, Tsubasa,
you'll be open
to shoot the ball.
[gasps]
[announcer] Incredible.
-[gasps]
None of the other players
from either team
dare to intervene.
All of them respect
this duel of the captains.
[Tsubasa] Matsuyama, you're
an incredible soccer player.
You're skilled at
protecting the ball.
[Hikaru]
You're impressive, Tsubasa.
No one's ever pressured me
this hard
while I have the ball.
[grunts]
Nothing is working.
I'll have to take risks.
[grunts]
[groan]
[announcer] Oh! Tsubasa loses
his footing and falls.
[Hikaru]
Yes, this is my chance.
[announcer] Matsuyama sees
an opening to pass.
[grunt]
[announcer] Incredible!
-But how did he--?
Tsubasa feinted the fall
to take the ball
from Matsuyama.
Tsubasa managed
to pull off a feint
worthy of
a professional player.
[announcer] Tsubasa runs
towards the opponent's goal.
Everyone, run back quick.
I can't believe it.
[announcer] Matsuyama tries to
reach Tsubasa
with everything he's got.
[yelling]
[announcer] But Tsubasa's
already preparing
his special Drive Shot.
No, you don't!
[grunts]
What?!
[announcer] Matsuyama
blocks the shot
with a slide tackle,
and the ball's
sent flying into the air.
[Katagiri]
The infamous Drive Shot...
needs a lot of time
to execute.
That's its only weakness.
[Tsubasa]
No, I failed again.
But now that Matsuyama's
on the floor,
I will try to do it.
Here I go.
Impossible!
-[grunt]
-[announcer]
Ladies and gentlemen,
- Tsubasa leaps
-[grunt]
to perform
his famous Overhead Kick.
[grunt]
[yell]
-[grunt]
-[yell]
[announcer] The goalkeeper
couldn't do anything.
Tsubasa finally scores
with an infallible shot.
What an incredible long
Overhead Kick.
-Good job, Tsubasa!
-Wow!
-[announcer] At the 28
-I knew you could do it,
- minute mark,
-Tsubasa.
the score's 1 - 1
- for both teams.
-[gasp]
[gasp]
Be careful!
-His left shoulder
-[gasp]
-is injured!
-[grunt]
[grunts]
-[gasp]
-No, Captain!
Tsubasa!
-Tsubasa!
[grunt]
Matsuyama...
[grunt] Tsubasa,
you only tied the score,
but the game isn't over yet.
-I'm going to score another
-[gasp]
goal on you.
Matsuyama...
-[announcer] Despite being rival
-Did you get hurt?
- Matsuyama demonstrated
-Are you okay?
- excellent sportsmanship
-Thanks to you, I am.
- on the field.
-[sigh of relief]
And the stadium
applauds
his admirable
sportsmanship.
Thank you so much,
Matsuyama.
It wasn't just
sheer courtesy.
I only want to defeat you
if you're playing your best,
Tsubasa.
[whistle]
[announcer]
And the referee whistles
the end of
the first half.
1 to 1 on the scoreboard.
In spite of
being injured,
Tsubasa has shown to be
very resilient.
[Katagiri]
All I know is...
an injury doesn't
heal itself overnight.
You must always play smart
when you're on the field.
What worries me the most
is his left leg.
[narrarator] Nankatsu's
locker room...
[Furuoya]
Good job out there, guys.
Tsubasa, is your shoulder
feeling fine?
Yeah, no need to worry,
Coach.
Hmm...
[groan]
[narrarator]
Furano's locker room...
Good, you played that
first half splendidly, guys.
Now you have to
focus on attacking.
-Yes, sir!
If we want to
come out on top,
we have to work as a team.
I have to score
another goal for us.
[groaning]
This time, I'll complete
my Drive Shot for sure.
Even if I break my leg...
The consequences
don't matter.
Tsubasa...
Is he thinking about...
[Machiko] Yoshiko, why do
you have such a long face?
-[sigh]
-They're tied, that's all.
Don't you worry.
Captain...
[announcer] These are
the last thirty minutes
and Furano starts
with the kick-off.
[whistle]
Okay, go ahead, Furano.
-We can do this!
-[growling]
-[announcer]
The forwards
Oda and Kisugi
go head to head viciously.
[gasps]
-[gasp]
-[announcer]
Nankatsu
recovers the ball.
[Hajime] Tsubasa isn't
playing like his usual self
due to his injury.
[Hajime]
Izawa!
[announcer] Taki passes
the ball to Izawa
instead of Tsubasa.
[Mamoru]
Rest easy, Tsubasa,
we'll take care of
the match.
[grunt]
[announcer] Hiroshi is able to
deflect the ball
with a header.
Here!
-[yell]
-[announcer]
But Furano's defense
- is relentless.
-Here!
Ishizaki gets
the ball and makes a pass.
Good job, Nankatsu.
Show them why
you're the best team
in the tournament.
[Kojiro]
We thought Tsubasa
was the only threat
to worry about,
but now I see Nankatsu
has a well-rounded team.
[Mamoru]
Here!
[announcer]
Tsubasa's running
neck and neck
with Matsuyama.
[Hikaru] I won't let you
do it, Tsubasa.
[Tsubasa]
I can't shoot anymore.
If that's the case...
I have to pass!
[grunts]
[announcer] Tsubasa passes
the ball
- instead of shooting.
-It's yours, Izawa.
[Mamoru] Tsubasa is
trusting me to score a goal.
I can't let
the captain down.
I'm gonna score
from here,
no matter what I have to do!
[announcer] Izawa uses
a Diving Header to shoot.
[yell]
-[grunt]
-[announcer]
And it's in!
Izawa makes the score
2 to 1,
with a beautiful
Five Meter Diving Header.
Finally,
Nankatsu is able to
break the deadlock.
The scoreboard is 2 to 1.
Furano is in
serious problems now.
-That was amazing, Izawa.
-Whoa!
Now they'll know Nankatsu
has more than just Tsubasa
to score with.
-Huh?
[groaning]
Tsubasa!
-No, Tsubasa!
It's his leg!
[announcer] After the pass
Tsubasa made to Izawa,
his leg injury
has worsened.
He's now on the floor
with a lot of pain.
Will the coach
ask for a substitution?
Tsubasa...
Tsubasa, is your leg okay?
There's no need for you...
to worry.
You have to tie our score,
Matsuyama.
I understand.
[gasp]
[Hikaru]
I man marked him well,
and even then, he was able
to make that pass to Izawa.
I promised to completely
ignore his injuries,
but in the last play,
I hesitated,
so I wouldn't harm him.
Tsubasa, I won't be gentle
with you anymore.
Next time,
I won't let you pass me.
[grunt]
Even with the bandages,
and the painkillers...
I still feel like my leg's
about to explode.
[announcer] And the match
starts up again.
Follow me, guys.
We have to tie the match
no matter what happens.
Yes, Captain!
[grunting]
No!
How is he able to
play like that
while he's injured?
[Tsubasa]
If I can't score,
I will man mark you
the whole time.
I'll follow you
like a shadow.
[grunt]
[announcer] Furano has control
of the ball,
but they can't get close
to Morisaki.
Furano, you have to
score a goal!
Furano is a strong team
without Matsuyama...
However, they're missing
a scorer.
If Tsubasa has him marked
the whole time,
it'll be impossible for him
to score another goal.
[announcer] Nankatsu
clears the ball.
Now both captains
are running to get it back.
[Hikaru] I'm ahead of him
by just a few inches.
I have to use this chance
to shoot to the goal.
[Tsubasa]
I won't let you do that.
[grunts]
[announcer] Tsubasa blocks
Matsuyama's shot.
[groan]
[announcer] But the impact
puts Tsubasa
on the ground again.
Try and get up.
[grunt]
-Tsubasa!
-[gasp]
-Are you okay?
-[groan]
Nankatsu's really strong.
We can't even get close
to the goal.
If it keeps going like this,
we will really--
Hey, Oda,
you're going to go to
Furano High School,
aren't you?
[Kazumasa]
Uh, yeah,
but why's that important,
captain?
[Hikaru]
Yamamuro is going to
-a high school out of town,
-[gasp]
Wakamatsu is going to study
industrial engineering
-elsewhere.
-Yeah.
And Kondo will go back
to his parent's farm
to take over
the family business.
I am, captain.
We've been playing together
since elementary.
Once we're finished with
the national tournament,
each of us will go
his separate way.
So this will really be...
the last time
we play together.
The end result
doesn't matter.
I want us to leave it
all on the field, brothers.
Yes, Captain.
[Hikaru] I'm begging you,
I only want...
for you to play
with the same passion
that we had the day
we became a team.
Be strong, Furano!
-Be strong, Furano!
Mhm.
-Uhh...
Are you okay, Tsubasa?
-Huh?
-Yeah.
I won't ever give up,
Matsuyama.